Hello welcome to this new the toile.
Now we're about to start implementing the Q learning process.
So let's go back to our slide in the Brusa toil we took care of the initialization step.
Now we're about to make this for loop iterating 1000 times repeating the following five steps process.
And so how are we going to do that.
Well I suggest that we dedicate one to toil for each of these five steps.
Therefore it is the toilet stall with the first step selecting a random state SD from our 12th possible
state.
All right let's do this.
So if you try to do it yourself you had to get some info on line to see which function could get you
some random integer between 0 and 12.
So if you found it.
Congratulations.
Now let's do it together.
So first of all we have to start the for loop.
That's easy to do.
Flipping Python you need to start with four obviously and then you need to choose an index variable
which will be incremented by one after each iteration of the for loop.
And then you have to specify the range by adding in range and in the range function.
You just need to put the range of values that is going to take.
And these are from 0 to 1000 because we want to repeat this five steps process 1000 times.
But the range function actually the lower bound is by default zeros.
We only have to specify the upper bound which is 1000.
And then you just add a column.
And here we go.
You're ready to start your for loop.
All right.
And so as we said in this first tutorial we're going to take care of this first up here which is to
select a random state from our 12th possible states that is basically a random number between 0 and
11 because indeed our states in our case study are those indexes from 0 to 11.
All right.
So let's go back.
So first since we have to get the state you know we have to get a state randomly.
Well we'll put that state in a new variable which we're going to call current state.
Why do I specify current state instead of simply state.
That's because remember in the next steps we'll get the next state as C plus 1 as opposed to the current
state t and therefore to make a difference and specify your current state current state.
Now here we are we have to choose a random number a random integer between 0 and 11.
And there is a function again offered to us by none by that can allow us to do that directly which is
the rand int function in which will have to specify as input the lower bound and the upper bound of
the range from which we want to get that integer randomly.
All right so this is the rand int function for the rand function is taken from the random Mudgal which
is a module of non-bias and therefore in order to get all this we need to first call none by which I
shall get.
P then this random module which contains the function we want to use and which is the rand int function.
All right.
That's how we can get it to Congress.
If you found this and so in this run in function as we just said we just have to improve the range of
the states from which we want to take one randomly.
And that is the range from 0 2.
And here there is a little trap but classic one that you must know the upper bound in a range and Python
is excluded.
And therefore instead of specifying 11 here as we would do naturally Well we have two inputs 12 to range
from zero or 12 zeroes included.
So zero will be taken into account but 12 is excluded and therefore will go from zero to 11.
All right.
So if you manage to get the current state this way congratulations.
So we're done with the first step of this big part here.
Now we're going to tackle the second step which consists of playing a random action 80 that can lead
to a next possible state that is where the reward of the action played in this state is above zero.
That's what we explained before and from these possible actions that we can play from a state.
We'll take a random one and that will make it for this step too.
All right.
So again try to do it by yourself and then we'll do it together in the next tutorial.